# Sechelt_Cultural_Plants

The .Rmd files follow a more or less logical flow. The 01 series of scripts handles the covariate preparation steps necessary in this project. Starting with the provided raw DEM  and CHM files, terrain attributes are first created in the 01a script. Additionally, rasters appropriate for use in the ClimateBC program are created in this program and outputs of that program are handled in there too (might consider moving that part to a separate script, not sure yet). 01b collects spatial data from the BC Data Catalog that may be of use later on. 01c deals with the gathering and resampling of satellite imagery bands from the Sentinel 2 satellites and subsequent preparation of those bands to vegetation indices.

In the 02 series of scripts, we begin to prepare data necessary for future modelling steps. In 02a, the field data is cleaned as much as it can be and is merged with other sources of field data (i.e.: old TEM surveys). The raster data at each of these points is also extracted and files are saved. In the 02b script, a site series raster is created using the DSMART algorithm. DSMART is applied in a customized format for this project where improvements were made for processing speed and a tiling method was defined in order to create the predictions on a computer limited by its own hardware. The 02c script (which may change to 03) is the modelling step where models for plant presence/absence and cover are created for a given species.

There are multiple customized functions within the \_functions folder. A subfolder of that contains the customized DSMART scripts. It's important to note that the core properties of DSMART are unchanged, rather the functions were just improved for better processing speed and stability.
